# Note

<!-- image -->

5

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

Kyla’s Newsletter

The United States of Amazon

New

∙

9m read

<!-- image -->

Kyla’s Newsletter

Dollar Devaluation and the Antisystem Youth

14m left

<!-- image -->

Second Best

Oren Cass’s Labor Theory of Value

New

∙

19m read

<!-- image -->

Simon Willison’s Newsletter

Watching o3 guess a photo's location is surreal, dystopian and wildly entertaining

New

∙

38m read

<!-- image -->

The Prism

Why Everything is Becoming a Game

Done

<!-- image -->

Simon Willison’s Newsletter

AI assisted search-based research actually works now

19m read

<!-- image -->

Second Best

The Strategy Behind the Stupidity

10m read

<!-- image -->

Kyla’s Newsletter

Tariff Q&amp;A: Welcome to the Actual Inbox

18m read

<!-- image -->

DYNOMIGHT INTERNET NEWSLETTER

Crémieux, j'accuse

4m read

<!-- image -->

Kyla’s Newsletter

Compliance is the New American Dream

Done

<!-- image -->

Contraptions

The Ecstasy of Deep Influence

21m read

<!-- image -->

Simon Willison’s Newsletter

Gemini 2.5 Pro pricing, a new GPT-4o

20m read

<!-- image -->

DYNOMIGHT INTERNET NEWSLETTER

My more-hardcore theanine self-experiment

7m read

<!-- image -->

Kyla’s Newsletter

Studio Ghibli AI, Classified Leaks, and the Context Shift

11m read

<!-- image -->

Statecraft

50 Thoughts on DOGE

Saved

∙

27m listen

<!-- image -->

Sam’s Newsletter

How many businesses-in-a-box are there?

3m read

<!-- image -->

Contraptions

Bangkok Diary, 2025

5m read

<!-- image -->

DYNOMIGHT INTERNET NEWSLETTER

Links for April

11m read

<!-- image -->

Interconnects

OpenAI's o3: Over-optimization is back and weirder than ever

9m read

<!-- image -->

Contraptions

What Makes a Good Teacher?

20m read

<!-- image -->

What's on your mind?

<!-- image -->

🫡

<!-- image -->

15

2

<!-- image -->

Substack is in danger of collapsing under its own weight. There are just too many worthy accounts here now to expect readers to cough up $5 for every writer they want to read. There needs to be some kind of subscription/revenue sharing mechanism so subscribers aren’t constantly asked for money for every damned article they’d like to read. Sell tokens. Punchcards. Come on, SS, INNOVATE ALREADY.

15.3K

942

886

<!-- image -->

There’s a fairly common type of elder millennial who read a lot of books earlier in their life but stopped altogether at some point in the last decade and 100% replaced it with Youtube

19

2

1

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

One ugly truth on becoming an ML Engineer!

153

9

14

#### Suggestions

<!-- image -->

Pixel Cabana

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

Elevate

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

The Engineering Value Chain Revolution

<!-- image -->

Expedition to the Far Lands

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

Chip’s Substack

<!-- image -->

Works on My Machine

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

Ajeya Cotra

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

I feel like my first note here should be on how much this place has changed since I first started writing the note eight seconds ago

745

53

27

<!-- image -->

I do all my work to escape myself. I don't believe in looking into yourself. If you do this, you just discover a lot of shit. The truth is not deep in ourselves. The truth is outside.

1.7K

171

220

<!-- image -->

my friend &amp; i were riffing on what a zero cost world might actually mean. not just cheap stuff, like literally everything trending toward zero. food, housing, services. even love.

for that to happen, you roughly only need three things: agi, robotics, &amp; near free energy.

&amp; humanity’s made more progress on all three in the past 10 years than in the entire history of civilization. which is kinda ridiculous to think about.

wrote a post about it below.

53

11

5

<!-- image -->

Amazon tried to show customers how much tariffs were adding to prices - then seemingly walked it back after a call from Trump. The 2025 economy isn’t a market, it’s a stage!

New essay on economic distortion, AI sycophancy, Trump’s tariff theater, and why clarity is the scarcest commodity of all.

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

The United States of Amazon

84

4

10

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

A Ketamine Addict's Perspective On What Elon Musk Might Be Experiencing On Ketamine

1.4K

92

311

<!-- image -->

If there was a village somewhere full of true opt-out people who have quit all modern tech, you wouldn’t hear about it at all. It would be an antimemetic village. Not even an opt-out brand like Amish.

<!-- image -->

Why even bother being upset about your job being automated if you're a knowledge worker? Aren't you trying to change the world? Don't you want your job to be automated so you can spend more time changing the world?

I do the job because the job needs to get done, not because it's the only job I know how to do. Thank God my job is being automated. That's one less thing I have to do to accomplish the changes I want to see.

9

1

<!-- image -->

Cracked engineers but they’re just literally on crack

11

1

<!-- image -->

LLMs don't just generate media, they are a new narrative medium, akin to the advent of printed books, radio, and film.

I've been experimenting with this new medium at Portola, and it's working: we have 800k+ downloads, a #1 app store ranking, and millions in ARR.

This is what we've learned so far.

every.to

AI Isn’t Only a Tool—It’s a Whole New Storytelling Medium

<!-- image -->

5

1

<!-- image -->

Every time I see this meme all I can think about is the air quality in the cave.

Who cares about the shadows guys. Ventilate!

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

64

6

8

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

The shape of network society

51

8

<!-- image -->

I know lots of pope-watchers pine for a Leo XIV or a Pius XIII for zeal for social teaching and doctrinal clarity, respectively. I get that.

But given the immensity of the threats to human dignity the next decades hold, a John Paul III deserves more thought.

The coming years are going to include the mainstreaming of eugenics, abortion, euthanasia, and the commodification of children and the person way beyond what normies understand right now.

37

3

3

<!-- image -->

my post about “being yourself” earlier went viral so i wrote a slight extension to it.

the deepest human craving is to feel fully seen without needing to explain yourself.

to say what you mean without crafting a script.

to be weird, loud, quiet, messy, curious, wrong &amp; still welcomed.

being yourself is the ultimate freedom.

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

being yourself is the whole game

28

1

<!-- image -->

Subscribe

A few Engineering &amp; ML books I recommend. Video Courses, Resources and what works for me when reading and studying.

<!-- image -->

Feb 11, 2025

Hey there,

This article is slightly different as it doesn’t necessarily cover technical concepts or code, but I think you’ll find it useful. In this one, I’ll list courses and books and share insights and images of how I study drafts, make project plans, etc. - insights you might take and apply to your learning process.

<!-- image -->

Neural Bits helps you learn ML Engineering step by step. If you like my work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber ;)

First, I want to share a few ideas on the learning process.

### Learning is not supposed to be fun

Exactly one year ago, Andrej Karpathy tweeted a few notes on “learning not being fun, which stuck with me because I agreed with those lines.

In summary, here are interesting 3 points that I’m sure we all know:

There are a lot of videos on YouTube/TikTok etc. that give the appearance of education, but if you look closely they are really just entertainment.

The people creating this content also enjoy it because fun has a much larger audience, fame and revenue.

Unless you are trying to learn something narrow and specific, close those tabs with quick blog posts.

I’ve been writing technical articles for the past year, and I’m still refining my approach to them. After 8 years in ML, I’m still learning new concepts as if day one, with pen and paper, books, research papers, and most importantly, acting on the project ideas I have in mind.

I like Andrej and look up to him as an educator, subject matter expert, and teacher, he’s been one of the motivators for me 🙏

#### The lie of learning in 10 minutes

True subject matter experts spend years researching, building, and studying; much of their work is done behind the scenes.

People like Andrej, Andrew Ng, Yann LeCun, Ian Goodfellow, Ilya, and Yoshua Bengio, people teaching CS229/231 at Stanford Online, and all AI Researchers who publish papers and articles that advance the field—this list could go on and on.

There’s also a growing community of content creators who show you how to “learn ML” and build with ML, but there’s one difference to make here between those who walk you through step-by-step and offer actual insights and those who hype it up and bombard you with useless noise.

A pragmatic mindset will help you avoid the noise and focus on what matters. As with any field, learning requires pen and paper, hands-on experience through building projects, and aiming to understand the underlying concepts.

#### What to do?

First things first, press the snooze button on the hype distractions. 
Mute everything that’s not practical:

- Ignore the “influencers” who buzz your feed with tag lines such as “KILLER FEATURE”, “GAME CHANGING”, “HUGE.”
- Ignore the memes
- Ignore every fresh model and paper release; you won’t keep up.
- Ignore the “use these 10000x tools to master AI” messages.

The brain is not wired up to keep track of constant impulses and frequent information overload.

Here’s what you can start doing:

- Think about what sub-field of ML you’d like to get into. Ask yourself any of these questions. The list could go on:
- Think about what sub-field of ML you’d like to get into. Ask yourself any of these questions. The list could go on:
    - “Do I want to work with Recommender Systems?”
    - “Do I want to do AI Research and read multiple papers as my day job?”
    - “Do I want to work with text, Chatbots like ChatGPT?”
    - “Do I want to work with Images, Video, or Computer Vision?”
    - “Do I want to work on ML Systems Infrastructure or Training Models?”
- You’ll discover that you don’t need to know everything; you should learn solid software engineering concepts and pick an ML field flavor.
- Once you’ve established that, it becomes way easier as you can:
- Once you’ve established that, it becomes way easier as you can:
    - Target specific books and articles on that matter
    - Follow certain people in the field
    - Start building a project in that area

Like anybody else, I would love to get a single book or course to teach us everything we need to know - but that’s impossible. AI is like a Matryoshka doll; you hear about AI and learn about Machine Learning, Deep Learning, Recurrent Neural Nets, Generative AI, etc.

If you aim to establish a base understanding and continue to learn and apply what you’ve learned, adding new tech and concepts will feel like adding Lego blocks.

### My recommendations

As per learning resources on how to start with ML, I prefer this order:

- Free Video Courses / High-Level Articles
- Books

If you’re starting, I’d recommend first looking into video courses due to their dynamic information content, as you’ll get to read + see + hear the information discussed.

#### Video Courses (clickable images)

The first set focuses on the basics, providing an overview of the ML field. Further examples are more domain-oriented, such as Large Language Models only.

Here’s the list:

1. “Machine Learning Specialization”
It's long, but feel free to skip lectures if you’ve heard or understood the concepts. This specialization is the common get-started point for getting into Machine Learning.

<!-- image -->

1. Stanford CS229 (2022)Very rich in details, and instructors know how to convey ideas that are easy to digest. Could get complex into details on some segments, but overall is a great course for beginners.

<!-- image -->

1. Stanford CS229 (2023) - Large Language Models
It focuses solely on large language models. A great lecture covering the key concepts of transformer models and the intricacies of LLMs. Although a bit complex, its a course that applies to General Audience.

<!-- image -->

1. MIT Introduction to Deep Learning (2024)
Recent course, a great instructor packed with Deep Learning and ML insights.

<!-- image -->

#### Domain Specific:

I added these because even if they’re domain specfic, they are aimed at a general audience and don’t include too advanced topics.

1. Deep Dives into LLMs like ChatGPT (Andrej Karpathy, 2025)
2. Building an LLM from Scratch (Sebastian Raschka, 2024)
3. General Audience Large Language Models (Andrej Karpathy, 2024)
4. Deep Dive into Computer Vision and Deep Learning (freeCodeCamp)

Miguel Otero Pedrido has also published an article with some great resources, especially blogs and books. Read it here 👇

<!-- image -->

Becoming an ML (AI) Engineer in 2025 ...

I was planning to talk about becoming an ML / AI Engineer today, but with DeepSeek out … well, I guess it’s time to close our laptops and explore careers in other fields, right? Programming is done. Developers are obsolete. This is the end…

3 months ago · 25 likes · 3 comments · Miguel Otero Pedrido

### Fundamentals Books (a partial list)

Here is a short list of books I’ve had since they came out. I haven't finished them, mainly because of my approach to studying technical books, which I will discuss in the next section.

For the following list, I’ll try to give it a score and some recommendations while considering the “Beginner to ML” learning curve. A low score means I don’t recommend it as a first grab for beginners.

<!-- image -->

1. Deep Learning (2016)
Score: 6/10
It is a very low-level book covering the maths behind every ML concept and topic. The information cut-off is in 2016, so it doesn’t cover the Generative AI and Transformers subfield but provides all the tools needed to understand it. It gets into math, statistics, and probabilities, which are the foundations of ML.
2. Generative Deep Learning (2023)
Score 8/10
Touches on every ML and Deep Learning key topic, unpacking it in enough detail. It starts with ML and ends with Generative AI with multi-modal models, Large Language Models, and some deployment to production insights. Contains code snippets. I would recommend it to those with some context on ML terms.
3. *Clean Code, Clean Architecture, and The Pragmatic Engineer*Score 9/10
These are older and not ML-related books, but they are packed with insights on how to build software systems. ML is another layer of building software, regardless of its inner workings. Learning a solid Engineering approach will help you pick up the ML field more easily.
4. Designing Machine Learning Systems (Chip Huyen)Score 9/10
Chip’s book focuses mainly on one layer above ML concepts: how to efficiently design and build ML Systems and Applications. I gave it an 8, as even if you don’t know every ML term discussed in the book, it’s easy to get the idea and form an understanding. Covers everything in a structured manner.
5. Managing Machine Learning ProjectsScore 5-6/10
This is more on the organizational side of ML Projects. It discusses the project-management approach of ML Systems and falls in the category above the basic ML terms and topics. It’s a good pick as it structures the ML System Workflow, helping you understand every stage involved before coding and implementing the system.
6. Machine Learning Engineering (A.Burkov)Score 10/10
It is a great book that covers every key term in great detail and explains the concepts in simple English. It’s easy to read and well-structured, and it walks you through notations, definitions, formulas, and data up to deployment.
7. The Hundred-Page Machine Learning Book by Andriy BurkovScore 10/10
It focuses on the basics of ML and encompasses all within 100 pages. It is a short read packed with definitions, concepts, and insights.
8. Machine Learning Design PatternsScore 8/10It is a good read, but more focused towards advanced levels of ML understanding. It discusses multiple design patterns on building and deploying ML Systems, thus it gets into specific details that might seem like an information overload. After understanding the ML System workflow well, I’d recommend it for later reading.

I’ve kept a few other books for a future post as they are more domain-specific. I will write about that list later.

### My Approach to Studying

In this section, I will offer some advice and insights on studying based on my experience and what I’ve seen works.

PRE: Ignore my calligraphy skills :)

1. Don’t read technical books cover to cover
I haven’t finished any of the above-mentioned covers, but rather, I jump to specific chapters when needed! Whenever I work on something, and I need to dive deep into a concept, I’ll open to that chapter and either read entirely, add new notes, or read the highlights.
2. Take notes, highlight
This is a big one for me! Usually, when I study or research, I take notes and write them directly on the book pages.  This helps me remember things and ideas when returning to that book chapter sometime in the future.

<!-- image -->

1. Distill insights onto paper, just as in Uni/School
Here’s an example of a notebook I’ve been having ever since I started studying Machine Learning. Full with drawings, notes that

<!-- image -->

1. Code it out
I highly recommend doing things in parallel, even if it might sound or look difficult at first glance - that’s what books with code snippets try to convey. If you’re reading about a topic or technique, aim to quickly code it out.

### Ending notes

In this article, I’ve presented a few learning resources that helped me get started and continue improving my skillset as an ML Engineer.

This article has more to it, but I will write another one covering the rest, mainly blogs, projects, and content creators, as I don’t want this one to become too cluttered.

I’ve been considering expanding my content types, so I've added this poll below. Please feel free to vote and comment on what you’d expect the most from Neural Bits. 🙏
I would love to hear your feedback.

POLL

### What should I consider in the near future?

Live code sessions

20%

Cohort Courses

60%

Byte-sized videos with insights

20%

5 VOTES · POLL CLOSED

That’s all for today, see you next week!

#### Subscribe to Neural Bits

By Alex Razvant · Launched 9 months ago

Level up and learn AI/ML Engineering. Design, build, and deploy efficient ML Systems, following the best MLOps practices.

By subscribing,  I agree to Substack's , and acknowledge its  and .

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

153

20

14

#### Share this post

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

Neural Bits

One ugly truth on becoming an ML Engineer!

Copy link

Facebook

Email

Notes

More

This site requires JavaScript to run correctly. Please  or unblock scripts